---
title: 'On Change'
description: 'how i’ve missed you'
pubDate: 'Apr 13 2026'
heroImage: 
    - /images/Sea.jpg
category: "General"
---

Looking back at the essays of old, finally starting to finish up this website, the absurdity of time is starting to sink in. I’m reading words I wrote but two years ago, yet I feel like I’m seeing a different person in the reflection. The person in the mirror feels so distant, those memories so removed, but the feelings remain vivid, like they happened yesterday.

Those essays were written at a time in my life when my drive to write was real–now, the feeling is all but dead. I struggle to say I even enjoy writing, nevertheless I have a knack for it, and I have nothing to show for it all: no awards, views, or college acceptances to my name. Looking back, I couldn’t write for shit – the confidence that led me to refuse even grammar checking my work looks so stupid in hindsight. Even now, every single fucking thing I write gets compared to the likes of ChatGPT – partly, that’s why you’ll see the occasional bit of profanity. It’s bluntly obvious my writing has improved leaps and bounds, and I used to think I had already improved heaps, so only god knows what I’ll say about this in two years. Just a few months ago, while grinding out supplemental essays over winter break, I feel like my writing improved ten-fold; not only can I maintain my voice, I’ve finally figured out how to use a semicolon and not sound stupid. If you decide to venture into the depths of "danger", be warned – there are no guarantees in what crazy shit you’ll see.

So, the question is, why do I even bother publishing those old, shitty essays? I’m embarrassed to even have my name associated with them, evidently so in the fact that they needed a disclaimer, so why have the whole world see it? It’s simple, really: it’s so I can see how far I’ve come; when you acknowledge the pain in your legs, only then do you realise how far you’ve walked. I’m a big proponent of owning who you are – whether that be your college, actions, or work – and once upon a time, I was incredibly proud of these. I’ve always pushed my writing to its limits, which is partly how every essay ended up with a hundred mistakes, but that’s just how it goes; you don’t learn to walk just by sitting on your ass; you fall and pick yourself up. I’m sure, in a few years, I’ll look back at this and hate it – only then will I be happy with what I wrote. For now though, I can be content.

Ironically, in the first video on the channel and the second post on this website, I talk about failure. At the time, I was getting rejected from shit left and right. I chose the story of Sisyphus not to regurgitate Camus but because I longed to have a boulder to push up a hill, to have a clear path forward. Ironically, soon after that video made its way onto the internet, I had a series of lucky breaks, and, until now, I was so busy I couldn’t find time to play video games. In some cruel, poetic twist, I’ve once again found myself in that exact situation, once again face-to-face with failure, somehow getting rejected from every school I seriously applied to. If you still haven’t figured out from the constant mentions of college, I have a serious chip on my shoulder. So, why all this? Like all those years ago, this whole situation has given me an unparalleled drive; I have motivation J.R.R. Martin only dreams of. Every time I open Instagram, every time I look up at the waitlist letter from Wharton I taped to my shelf, I tap into a hunger I didn’t even know I had. Even though I find myself in that all-to-familiar position, all of it holds a completely different meaning. Rather than hope, the story of Sisyphus is one of inevitable failure – even as he does everything in his power to push the boulder, he finds no end in sight. Yet, that determination in the face of hopelessness – that's human spirit. Even as he’s sent down to the foot of hell and doomed to repeat the same thing for all eternity, he continues to try – not because of some hope, but in spite of its absence. That, in and of itself, is the contentment.

To end on a lighter note, allow me to reminisce a little about high school. When I finished that first essay, in the spring of my sophomore year, it was the day of my sixteenth birthday – a few weeks ago, I turned 18. Realising I’ve basically stopped writing altogether, that I instead spent all this time for it to amount to nothing, I came to the realisation: I ought to live a little. I’ve enjoyed my time in high school, very much so at that, but I’ve spent so much of it chasing a unicorn. It was fun, and I only slightly regret it, but I ought to have smelt the roses.

Finally, we’re at the end. I started that original essay with "History doesn’t care about losers” and "No one remembers who comes in second.” As funny as the irony is, and despite all the parallels you can draw to getting waitlisted from Wharton, I think I left something out initially. History remembers most fondly the Cinderella stories, those that went the distance, and it’s better to fall at the bottom than at the top. Just like I ended that essay, I’ll say it again: if you made it all the way here, from the bottom of my heart, thank you. Here’s to many more.

--

_an original essay._