---
title: 'On Pancreatic Cancer'
description: 'not too shabby'
pubDate: 'Jun 1 2024'
heroImage: 
    - /images/Pancreas.jpg
category: "Danger"
---

Ok, first thing’s first, if you’re looking for a summary of the story, just watch the movie yourself. This isn’t kindergarten, and my reviews are a lot more than recaps. If you do choose to lay aside roughly two hours for the watch, be warned that it’s a slow burn. Ideally, you have brain-rotted friends that won’t stop talking about mogging, mewing, and skibidi rizz. With that aside, we’re going to be critiquing “I Want to Eat Your Pancreas," and let’s just say I have some really, really bad takes throughout this thing.

Well, frankly, this movie was nothing more than a generic, mediocre romance, and this is seen best when looking at our leads: on one end of the spectrum, you have the extroverted girl character, a Deredere apparently (?), and on the other, a self-inserted, absolutely miserable guy. There are hints of philosophy, ideas of consent, and existentialism, but they‘re all tackled in the most half-assed way possible. Actually, I guess we might as well start there. So, not really a spoiler, Tea Girl, Sakura Yamauchi, dies, and the entire movie, until the after-credits, is a retelling of her relationship with Jail Time, the MC guy, and it’s this Romeo and Juliet type of story. The only difference is they're shackled by inevitable death and societal expectations, not family feuds and political conflicts. Because of this focus on cessation (a fancy new word I just learned), the story is often regarded as deep and “more than just anime,” but we all know here that nothing will ever save something from being anime. While its particular theming does set it apart, “Your Lie In April” did it first and, on top of that, way better. There are nudges towards nuance, but every conversation is written like, "Aren't I so quirky? I think about death!” And if you're familiar with Jaden Smith a few years back, you know exactly what I’m talking about. They have these random interjections of Tea Girl being like, “Oh no, I’m scared to die," and while it’s an interesting way to juxtapose her character, it’s not something we haven’t seen before and, frankly, it’s not all too interesting. If you have read anything remotely philosophical in your life, I recommend Viktor Frankl’s "Man's Search for Meaning." Btw, you're more than familiar with everything covered in this movie. When considering the demographic anime targets, however, and I’m generally referring to pseudo-intellectual, pretentious Hasanabi fans, it all starts to make more sense. The theory is that this anime is like a gateway into anime gatekeeping and elitism, something along the lines of “WOW, you didn’t understand IWTEYP; you're not a true anime fan!" but that’s completely besides the point. 

To illustrate the level of stupidity I’m talking about, they really try to play off “I don’t want to die” as a deep, enlightening revelation when in reality, it’s possibly the most fundamental truth about all of life. If you want an example of this death thing done better, look at Frieren; its opening episode is the best anime I’ve ever watched. The whole death thing does make for an interesting romance, but again, it’s done better, and here, it’s super half-assed. Without going into spoilers, her whole pancreatic cancer thing is ultimately a joke, and it somehow still gets worse when you consider the show's messaging. Multiple times, they emphasize how special and unique their relationship is, mostly due to the abnormal conditions in which it started, but that all goes out the window with a twist that makes the whole thing, both the movie and their friendship, kind of cheap and samey. While you could argue this is because of the narrative’s larger scope and how it’s more than just Tea Girl and Jail Time, after all, the way in which she dies is certainly more real than cancer for a lot of people; it just kind of sours the isolated narrative, and sometimes, a better story is worth sacrificing for. I still don’t understand the stuff about them being special, though. Generally, the weird ending left me with mixed feelings, considering it really caught me off guard (something I really didn’t expect from an anime), but I still can’t decide on whether I like it. It does ruin most of the tension built up, as we find out it is all ultimately pointless, but it definitely makes it more memorable. The analogy I would use for it is this: too much hot sauce will ruin food, but it doesn’t really matter if it was bland in the first place. That is to say, the food is still shit, but at least it’s spicy.

For a while, I’m just going to be going over some miscellaneous stuff I wanted to yap about after watching the movie. At this point, if you want to skip to the end for my rating, feel free to do so. The time stamp SHOULD be in the description. Ok, the second thing on the agenda today is “The Little Prince” and, more specifically, the absolute shitshow that is the ending of this movie. I’m bringing this up because crazily enough, I actually liked this portion, but I don’t think it was narratively the best idea. Quick disclaimer, I read “The Little Prince” in like 7th grade. Most of it is really foggy. A lot of what I write here is from Google and Reddit, so there’s that. I did add my personal interpretations, though, so there’s that. First, contrary to all the usual whining, I actually kind of found the letters sweet. It was well established, written, and executed, so there’s really not much to complain about on that front. For better or for worse, it kind of reminded me of “Thirteen Reasons Why,” an absolute shitshow in everything it stands for, but that’s besides the point. The ending is bittersweet, something I’m not afraid to admit, and if it weren't for the “Little Prince” references, it would have been bland, yes, but this is, for lack of a better word, just weird. Before you flame the shit out of me in the comments, I do understand the metaphor, and while I think it was really clever, it requires you to understand “The Little Prince,” something much more complex than your average anime. Considering the last time I read the book was during Covid, which feels like a lifetime ago, this is where Googling came in clutch. Don’t worry, all the opinions are still mine. For those who didn’t understand the scene, which I suspect is a lot of you guys, there are multiple layers to it. Again, amazing metaphor, but the presentation is so weird. The rose, the classic beauty with thorns, plays a similar role in “The Little Prince," and in both, there and here, it’s a symbol of pushing your loved ones away. The baobab trees COULD be interpreted as similar to jail time, as both are self-destructive, but that might be a stretch. The better comparison for that is cancer, as it destroys its host, but that's really literal. Chances are, however, that’s what they were going for, as at the end, a Sakura tree does blossom. The prince's death (oh no! A spoiler of an eighty-year-old book!) is the obvious comparison to make when talking about Tea Girl, but depending on how you interpret both, the Prince’s body being “too heavy to carry far” is essentially the nature of cancer. The last one I noticed, and I’m sure there are many others, was the overall theming of both stories and why, specifically, it was “The Little Prince” chosen. Fundamentally, to me at least, the book is a story about personal interactions and how through them, one grows as a person. The Little Prince, learning to take care of his flower, grows as a person, and similarly, Jail Time, opening up, metaphorically and literally, to Tea Girl, changes his life. Ok, now that you hopefully understand that, where could this have possibly gone wrong? The presentation of it, the LSD trip, is some of the weirdest storytelling I’ve ever seen, and maybe I was too cynical when looking at it, but the shift from a grounded, real story to whatever that was truly was strange. I don’t know what to really think here: on one hand, the metaphor is complex, interesting, and subtle, but it’s completely alienating if you haven’t read the book, and even if you have, it absolutely ruins any immersion you have into the story. By this point, if you couldn’t tell, this has become less of a critique and more of just my thoughts after watching the movie. In other words, yapping.

So, if you’re wondering where these names come from, and by that I mean Tea Girl and Jail Time, it can be summed up in one word: RAPETOSAURUS. Oh, and quick side note, their reasoning for keeping Jail Time’s name a secret is cool, though it’s still kinda corny. To provide context, the movie is a romance, obviously (and calling it a tragedy might be a bit of a stretch), but even for one of its kind, it’s ridiculously horny. The entire hotel scene was a mess, and realistically, I would rather have someone walk in on me watching “50 Shades of Grey.” At least with that, it’s real people fucking and not two cartoon characters edging each other. They try to recover the scene, yes, but the juxtaposition is done so poorly to the point where it’s more funny than deep. Now, once that happens, one thing leads to another, and they’re in Tea Girl’s room, absolutely pushing the age rating for the movie. In the worst possible attempt at furthering the plot, they take turns RAPEtosaurusing each other, and it’s an absolute embarrassment to what once was a remotely wholesome movie. Well, this scene doesn’t come out of NOWHERE; there’s some rhyme to the reason, but it’s still really random and super, super illegal. She’s pre-established as ridiculously down bad, so her legally questionable actions are semi-justified, but Jail Time does a complete 180, and instead of displaying a gradual change, what they most definitely intended, he jumps personalities in the span of 1 RAPEtosaurus. I would show you it, but it’s definitely not going to fly on YouTube, though you could probably find it on CornHub. Ok, that’s hyperbole; it’s not that crazy, but it's bad. After he flees the crime scene, and according to Soviet, this clears him as it shows he’s ashamed; he runs into NPC plot device #69. They get into the most contrived altercation ever, and after a jumble of stupidity, bro is magically forgiven, and the RAPEtosaurus is completely forgotten about. I usually say something like this, but approaching this with any Western American cultural norms, this looks really, really bad. In Japan, maybe this slides, but I’m not going to make any assumptions. Regardless, this RAPEtosaurus stuff is like 80% of my notes going forward, and it’s pretty much my only major, game-changing critique. Before you go to defend it, even the Wiki writers can’t make up their mind. “Thinking it would help Sakura, Takahiro punches Haruki in the face… Haruki then tells Sakura that she should be able to be with someone who truly cares about her…” … I’m so confused.

Now, minor gripes. There are grievances here or there, as always, but they’re generally minor and just some cringe that I couldn’t let slide. The characters have motivations all over the place, the plot is an absolute mess, and the after-credits are horrid, but it is what it is. Again, this list isn’t all-inclusive; it’s just what I could think of off the top of my head. I’m trying to keep this video short for the sake of my sanity, so let’s just stop it there. If this video goes somewhere, I’ll do a more in-depth review with more of the guys and probably of the sequel books. Ultimately, when it comes down to it, the show fails at what it wants to be. It looks to be the next Silent Voice, but it just ends up shallow, overreaching, and generic. That’s pretty much it, and I’m ridiculously burnt out, so let’s just go to the final rating.

With everything said and done, this movie was enjoyable. Crazy hearing that from me, but it doesn’t mean much. Even Morbius was a fun watch, and so was the FNAF movie a while back. By itself, it’s alright, but if you’re going to watch it, do it with some friends that can't and won't stop talking about mogging. There was a lot of glazing and arguing in the discord, as per usual, but at the end of the day, my rating is a 6.9/10. Realistically, it’s anywhere from 6 to 7, but I can’t resist the brain rot. If I were to give it a more emotional, for lack of a better word, rating, it would be around an 8, but facts don't lie. The movie was sweet, sad, and somber, but it just failed my expectations in every way. I thought “Your Lie in April” wasn’t half bad, so I really did expect a lot, and as always, it was more like “50 Shades of Grey.” It has a really generic Romeo and Juliet plotline, but ultimately, its problem wasn’t the weak plot. It’s generic, which is fine, but it's treated like and played up to be so much more to me; I just don’t see it. As a cute story about destiny and fate, sure, but as a philosophical meta-commentary on life? No, just no.

--

_Content was edited for grammar; originally an essay for youtube._