---
title: 'On Sisyphus'
description: 'the love of the grind'
pubDate: 'March 30 2024'
heroImage: 
    - /images/blog-placeholder-1.jpg
---

2+2=4. It’s an incredibly simple statement, almost deceivingly so, but the equation highlights a key aspect of our universe: that absolutes exist. Regardless of the divisor applied, the sum of all quotients will always equal 4. Extrapolate that logic onto the entirety of our universe and you’ll arrive at a pretty uncontroversial claim: a group of definite factors will result in a definite solution. Our understanding of human free will directly contradicts it; most people tend to believe that we, as a species, have the power to create our own outcomes—almost like saying 2+x=y. Whichever philosophical outlook you have, deterministic or libertarian, we can’t simply prove, with the technology we currently have, what that x factor is or whether it even exists. With recent advancements in the various fields of science—quantum mechanics, theoretical physics, and neurology to name a few—we've begun to challenge the long-standing notions surrounding the existence of free will and, ultimately, the nature of the universe itself. Although we've come decently far in reaching a consensus, almost everything results in a one-word answer: maybe. So, the answer to the question presented—whether science, an ever-evolving understanding of the universe, can prove the existence of free will—is no, it doesn’t, but it also doesn’t prove anything.

Before we start anything though, we need to define “free will.” The definition I’m going with is one that’s generally agreed upon: free will is the ability to consciously decide between alternatives. It’s really that simple. However, by dissecting that simple definition, we see the need to define two more things: human consciousness and choice. From a deterministic framework, our apparent ability to pick between options is merely an illusion resulting from inherent limitations with the human mind: specifically, our understanding of the subconscious. When you wake up in the morning, you have made a choice on whether or not to go back to sleep, whether you realized it or not, and that decision was an instinctual one. Even for a person presented with two apparent alternatives, let’s say chocolate or vanilla ice cream, that very “option” is merely a proposal of two alternatives. There’s no implication that both are possible because they aren't; you’ll always pick one option. To use an analogy you’re going to be hearing a lot, rewinding the tapes of time will replay that same choice. Sure, you may pick vanilla if x is true, but in that scenario, with the outside factor, that some scenario will always result in vanilla. The same factors will lead to the same conclusions; that’s what the determinist argument boils down to. Free will believers generally fall into 2 categories: those who believe in an absolute, non-physical free will and those who believe in one that conforms with determinism. Both are somewhat justifiable, absolute libertarianism less so, but we’ll be focusing on compatibilist theory for the sole reason that non-physical free will implies something akin to mind-body dualism, and it’s not very provable via science. Most people tend to fall into the camp of compatibilism, even if they don’t fully understand it themselves, and their argument is about the coexistence of desire and will. Essentially, subconscious desires will dictate actions, but that final decision, the choice, is your decision to make. When presented with chocolate ice cream or vanilla, there is a real chance to pick either. Make that choice a thousand times and, even assuming all other things are equal, you may pick both choices. Critics generally hold that this idea is weak; it lacks any provable evidence, and it relies on watering down determinism, but it is nevertheless a popular position. All of that is just the “alternatives” part of the question. What about "consciousness"? Let’s say a conscious decision is one you make willingly, with knowledge of having the chance of making that decision. Is it still conscious if your choice was affected by external factors? These factors take the form of your subconscious—that is to say, all conscious decisions are a result of a subconscious one. All subconscious decisions are a result of chemical processes in your brain, within the prefrontal cortex, and all decisions are affected by a mix of genetics, previous circumstances, and logic. With those precursors established, we can finally start.

The most common argument in regard to the existence of free will is that of quantum mechanics, for good reason, and its “chaos theory” is where this question goes to die. In short, it states that at its lowest level, the universe is random; Britannia defines it as “the study of apparently random or unpredictable behavior in systems governed by deterministic law.” At the quantum level, the lowest we currently know of, particles are stochastic and thus theoretically random. M. Balaguer, a writer for the “MIT Press,” defines this relationship as “it could be nothing caused us to get result [x]," and so “it could be that it just happened.” Let’s entertain the argument that the universe is truly random. Would that even necessitate human free will? Not really. The universe being random just means that absolute determinism is false, something not wholly implausible, but, if anything, randomness may just mean a lack of control over our actions and that, at the quantum level, the particles in your brain are acting randomly. Regardless, it’s incredibly difficult to argue for absolute human agency because, even if at the quantum level, your actions are influenced. We see this in everyday life; there are a hundred and one things we judge without explicit rationale. Take incest: nothing about the act is inherently wrong; it constitutes no suffering (assuming consenting adults), but we inherently find it icky. If you want to make the argument that the baby ends up with birth defects, consider the two following questions: Would your stance change if it were either same-sex or one party were infertile, and, if a baby is born, is death less painful than life with defects? The fact of the matter is that humans have an inherent tendency, likely as a result of evolution, to not have intercourse with their cousins. This in and of itself isn’t too different from just love; you don’t choose who or what you like; it just is. Now, are those butterflies in your stomach free will, or is it a factor wholly out of your control? You can say that our actions are influenced but not predetermined; that would be a compatibilist argument, and yeah, plenty of people have intercourse with their cousins. I would argue that even the choice of incest is a logical one. Humans are inherently logical creatures, and if that person personally believes having sex with their cousin is the best alternative, who’s to say they’re wrong? That conclusion arrived at solely by physics is one you’re going to hear a lot: kinda. Even chaos theory, a very strong argument against determinism, falls apart by the decoupling of scales. Think of it like this: a single atom of a metal won’t conduct electricity despite the opposite being true when these atoms are arranged together. These random occurrences at the subatomic level don’t necessarily dictate the behavior of the universe, and if it can’t even do that, what does it have on free will? So, the answer we get from theoretical physics is “depends on who you ask” because, honestly, it depends on who you ask.  

Remember when we talked about crushes and love? The phenomenon of attraction is one still not fully understood by neurologists; there’s something inherently magical about it. Is this magic free will or a soul? Sure, but the more likely answer is that it’s something so completely out of our control that we can’t even grasp its existence. Our brain is known to play tricks on us, an oxymoronic claim, and we’re simply not in as much control as we think we are. The famous study here is the Libet experiment: it shows our brain making a decision before we’re even aware of the decision made, but even Libet didn’t really believe in the absence of free will—the brain still reserves the right to veto any decision. All arguments about the neuroscience of free will tend to lean towards the conclusion that we’re all just slaves to our brains, but that’s still a long shot from saying all things are predetermined. We’ve long established that external factors have an effect on your decision-making. "Not being in as much control as we think,” E. Jones says, “is different from being pulled along in a literal predetermined path. There’s also the fact that we can overwrite our subconscious, similar to what Libet believed in, but it raises the question: is the decision to change the decision you unconsciously made even a conscious one? The more fundamental problem lies in the fact that neuroscientists generally consider “free will” to be separate from your brain; thus, your brain deciding things negates free will, but this definition isn’t shared by most people. When debating with me, Madj, a friend of mine, found your brain and you to be one and the same—take your brain out of the body, it’s no longer the same person—and the sentiment seems to be widely shared. As E. Nahmias, a writer for Scientific American, says, "Most people accept that we can have free will even if our mental activity is carried out entirely by brain activity.” If your brain can freely make decisions, and you are your brain, then you freely made those decisions.

If the incest thing didn’t get me into enough trouble, this will; we’re talking about God. This is where I put the disclaimer that science and religion can coexist; the two are by no means mutually exclusive, but the extent of that is questionable. A common argument you hear, mostly from theists, is that the Big Bang itself can’t be possible without a God, or else stuff would have started to exist out of nothing. Our understanding of our universe’s origin is undeniably flawed; we still lack concrete proof of there even being a Big Bang, but there’s nothing about the theory that insinuates the idea of “coming from nothing.” For all we know, there very well could have been something before the explosion or just empty space, but nothing implies the existence of a God. I’m really only addressing this because of religion’s popularity and this argument's frequency, but even God, something above all science, isn't a definite confirmation of free will. This argument also dually acts as a possible counterargument to my point that science can’t prove the existence of free will, because science should be a product of God, and surely God can definitively answer every question. If something like a god existed, he could just grant us humans free will; it really could just be that simple, but the problem could get as problematic as evolution theory. If humans really did evolve out of nothing, practically a miracle, who’s to say the Big Bang is impossible? Besides just that, the ways humans evolve could dictate behavior, and by certain definitions, that would invalidate “free will.” I don’t want to go down that rabbit hole, so I won’t, but there’s also the question of God's involvement with the world. If you’re a deist, believing God’s role in the world to be that of a watchmaker, then we very well could have free will. If you’re a believer in God’s involvement with the actions of the universe, there’s a chance we’re just puppets in some grand tragedy, all played out for God’s entertainment.

When it comes down to it, it’s hard for even me to say that science can determine that things like love are calculable because there’s something so mystical about the phenomena. It’s such a cruel outlook that we’re merely slaves to past circumstances, but does it even matter? Regardless of whether free will even exists, you’ve lived your whole life up to this point perfectly content; does the existence of free will really matter? Whether we can even answer the question is still up in the air; even science still can’t prove either side. The whole inspiration for this piece came from that NYT article about the uncertainty of the universe and that nothing should be taken for granted, and that’s really the point I’ve been trying to make. Something we intuitively believe in, the ability to freely make choices, is so fragile under scrutiny. Maybe the gut feeling of all these people hold weight;feelings the crowds are known to be wise, but it’ll remain a gut feeling until further scientific proof arrives. But maybe, just maybe, we are but slaves.

“Man can do what he wills, but he cannot will what he wills” - Schopenhauer. 

_Content was edited for grammar; originally an essay for class._