---
title: 'On Solo Leveling'
description: 'absolute trash'
pubDate: 'Apr 22 2024'
heroImage: 
    - /images/Jawline.jpg
category: "Danger"
---

This is my fourth complete rewrite of this script, and wow, am I burnt out. The original hook for this video went something like, "As I’m writing this in my first-period chemistry class, the last episode of Solo Leveling just finished airing with its cleverly named last episode, 'Arise.'" Now if you’re wondering why I have class on Sunday, that’s because the intro was a lie. It sounded better though—imagine if I said, "Two days ago the last episode of Solo Leveling’s first season just aired"—and I genuinely just want to get this video over with in the first place. I already don’t like the show, so writing about it basically killed me. Even now I’m struggling to comprehend that it’s been 3 and a half now months since my friends sat me down to watch “this new anime everyone’s talking about.” Before I inevitably lose my credibility, of which I have none in the first place, I will admit that I have not read the manhwa—nor do I plan to. Before you click off, or check out, the different perspectives might actually go a long way in illuminating an outsider's perspective, and maybe my more “refined” palate may make for an interesting video. Who knows. If you really can’t stand me, though, skip to Wombat’s part or Sovin’s criticism of me. Timestamps should be linked (if I can figure out how), and lastly, take everything with a grain of salt. 

Frankly, I firmly dislike this show, and no, this isn’t ragebait. Kinda. When I first heard about the show, the first thing TJI told me was “The world-building's amazing.” These words have stuck with me, and in a sense, they’re what inspired this video. Little did I know at the time; he could not have been more wrong. This misconception probably comes from the show’s heavy fixation on explaining everything, and in a sense, I can’t fault the thought. It’s important to note, however, the distinction between “good worldbuilding” and a world we know a lot about. The term "worldbuilding," and subsequently, a fleshed-out setting, means a deep and complex one, not one “well explained.” A shallow world could be very thoroughly explained and vice versa; the two aren’t mutually inclusive. To further emphasize this point, let’s contrast DQXI—the perfect example of a deep, immersive world—and this shitshow. This will make sense, I promise. By the way, in case this isn’t clear, I’ll only be talking about writing. Soviet and Wombat are far more experienced in the medium, and thus, they’ll cover animation and the show as a whole. 

As aforementioned, I’m playing through “Dragon Quest XI: Echoes of an Elusive Age,” and that game took my breath away. Everything it does right, Solo Leveling fucks up, and that’s why we’re here today. Even as “Hero” is silent, the story manages to completely engross the player, and in fact, his minimal presence enhances the overall immersion factor. They don’t need their main character to constantly spout exposition; everything is shown, not told. On the contrary, Solo Leveling completely forgoes every character—nay, every thing—for the sake of exposition dumps and plot devices. I kid you not, the magic system—an integral part of every magical fantasy—is just explained by an omniscient narrator in the first few seconds. Going back to the initial argument, less is more. The unknown, I would argue, is equally crucial in a believable world; this mystery plays a big part in engaging the reader as well as adding an air of believability. That aside, Yuji Horii’s world feels lived in BECAUSE he lets it do the talking: he holds faith in his dialogue, aesthetic, and writing to the point where there’s not really any further need to suspend your disbelief. At some point, Erdrea feels real. This nonchalant blending of reality with fantasy is, most famously, a crucial part of the magical realism genre. Here, we’re talking more about true fantasy, but the point still translates: unexplained magic can make itself, ironically, more believable. As if the characters don’t bother questioning it, why should we? The subtlety and acceptance of magic normalize it, and in turn, they amplify the story’s narrative complexity. Now, I understand I’m comparing apples to oranges—two completely different genres with one being inherently more interactive—but my argument still stands. The real reason behind this portion was to, in my own way, honor the late Akira Toriyama. If you want a better comparison, stay tuned for the major video next month: Frieren! Also, in hindsight, a lot of the DQ parts got cut out in the rewriting process, but whatever<sub>1</sub>.

Back to the matter at hand, the show's shitty attempt at worldbuilding isn’t an isolated incident. I’ve tried writing this four separate times, and until now, I just couldn’t get it together. The dialogue is just so monumentally stupid, and I just couldn’t put the thoughts onto paper, but I think I've finally got it. Now, without further ado, what was so stupid about the dialogue? To sum it up in five words, “this spider has eight legs.” If that sounds unfathomably dumb, I did a double take too. Yes, you guessed right; that’s an actual line in the show. I would give more specific examples, but that’s way too much work and just pretty cheap. The inherent problem with the dialogue writing is the fact that it’s used to build the plot, not the characters. I think I’ve mentioned this prior, but characters are half the appeal. The overarching story needs to be good, yes, but it’s not what keeps you coming back every week. If you want a really good example of this, look at Grey’s Anatomy. The show’s overfocus on developing the plot seeps into the dialogue, and under close examination, it all falls apart. Some pieces of dialogue are so blatantly expositional, and most of the time, they're not even interesting or important. If you’re looking for an example, look no further than the bastardization of Mr. Mews. We’ll get to that later, though. For almost all stories, the dialogue is the way to develop characters; it helps a LOT with humanizing them, and Solo Leveling departs from this norm. Who would've guessed, but it does NOT pay off, and everyone just ends up bland. So, what did they try instead? Quite literally, nothing. This segment ended up more as a critique of Solo Leveling's approach to storytelling and not really dialogue, but both are somewhat mutually inclusive. My point is, the dialogue hyperfocuses on everything but the characters, and as a result, the story’s horribly boring if you’re not into the plot. And realistically, who over the age of five is invested in this shit<sub>2</sub>.

I believe I mentioned this earlier, but in case you forgot, I have no inherent issues with the show’s setting. I would argue for the contrary; in fact, I love the idea and its spin on RPGs, but it just hurts to see such a brilliant world butchered by such shitty writing and, the point I've been trying to make, such a lack of care. My personal headcanon is that the show’s writers butchered the source material to make Korea look bad because of the long-standing feud between the two nations. That’s completely besides the point, though. I love RPGs, as you could probably tell, and the limitless possibilities they provide enable fantastic, or rather, defined worlds. Now, how does one even go about fucking this up? Half the intricacies are already pre-established, as Solo Leveling uses modern-day Korea as a foundation, and the fantasy elements all have been done to death by better writers, so why? I appreciate the excruciating details it goes to, and it theoretically could be interesting, but there’s still not really much to talk about. The power hierarchy idea is really unoriginal, and that’s not even mentioning the fact that this is a direct copy of every Isekai from the past few years. At the end of the day, the show's trying to be something it’s not (complex), and sometimes, it’s better to be yourself. At its core, it’s a simple power fantasy and nothing more. That’s all it should be; that’s all it ever was. 

Did someone say power fantasy? Jolly Gee (I was so fucking tired while writing this)! Anime, as a medium, is not foreign to the trope at all; I'm pretty sure that’s the entire point of Shounen. As I said previously, there’s nothing wrong with being on a cheap power trip, and to some extent, I can understand the escapist fantasy it provides (I’m not depressed). The problem, however, lies within the fact that the show wants and thinks it's something more. It takes itself WAY too seriously, and frankly, this thing is closer to Pokémon than anything remotely deep. Mr. Mew is the embodiment of this idea: he’s shallow, edgy, and has the decision-making capabilities of a toddler; when making any decision, he never has a goal in mind. Of course, that’s because he doesn’t. He's a fictional character in a show that uses him for his body. As the writer, however, at least try to give him SOMETHING. A personality, motivation, or character arc would all be nice, but I’m dreaming. For the first half of the season, he tries to save up money for his mom's surgery—a noble cause—but once he gets the cash, he goes off the rails on one really, damn long power trip. This is one point I’ll give to the writers: they do accurately portray what a little power does to a motherfucker. From firsthand experience, his inflated ego is nearly identical to some of the kids I’ve seen with even the slightest power, and for the target demographic, it’s really damn accurate. We’ll expand on that later, though. For now, to wrap up the power fantasy argument—even for a show of this nature—Solo Leveling is just lazy. There’s not a single fuck given to anything but the “cool factor," and as a result, it’s lackluster at best—even for a power fantasy<sub>3</sub>.

Because there’s no logical organization to this video, we might as well talk about the cast. If you think Mr. Mew’s shallow, you’ll be pleasantly displeased with arguably the worst character I’ve seen in a minute: orange-hair girl. If I told you her actual name, Lee Joohee—I had to google that by the way—you wouldn’t have a clue who I was yapping about. Anyways, the fake blonde (Wiki says orange, but I don’t care) is quite possibly the worst representation of women I have ever seen. I’m no anime connoisseur, nor am I a radical feminist, but I can’t imagine it gets much worse than this. I’m not all too familiar with East Asian values, nor am I trying to virtue signal, but even then, this might be stretching it. Just as the dialogue rant spawns from one line, this whole critique is exclusively because of her. I’m not even exaggerating; a fake blonde might be an even more distressed damsel than Rapunzel. If you were to calculate the morality of her screen time, you would find an unusually high concentration of NaCl and H₂O. Remember when I told you I wrote this in chemistry? I wasn’t lying. If that joke went over your head, and I don’t blame you, quite literally all her screen time is spent crying. Well, not exactly. The other portion is her getting rescued by Mr. Mews, and if that’s not enough, she’s a literal fucking healer. In the beginning, she literally coddles him—resembling a traditional motherly figure—and at times, she feels like a “trigger liberals” checklist. Ok, quick bonus stereotype: Wombat mentioned that she talks too much, and I’ll leave that up for you to interpret. Before I get canceled, that comment was a joke and does not reflect any of our values in the slightest<sub>4</sub>

The only remotely interesting thing they do with his character, the apparent PTSD, is a complete shitshow and a complete mockery of people that actually suffer from the disorder. Not a single writer on the entire team has even the faintest idea of what a real mental disorder looks like, and the portrayal of fake blonde “trauma” is not only cheap, it’s downright harmful. It’s so comical and stereotypical that at times, the writers genuinely seem like infantile children. Being holed up in a dark room is really their best shot at depicting depression, and at that point, I don’t think writing’s the career path for you. Wow, it’s like they really can’t do anything without dialogue. Who would have guessed? Back when I said the adaptation took liberties in expanding the cast, she was the main one I was referring to. Going off of the fact that Korea’s decently liberal, it’s no surprise that this plotline was the result of A-1 Studio’s interference. Since we’re on the topic of female representation, we might as well talk about “would” next. If you’re wondering why I called Mr. Mew’s sister "Would," it’s not because I want to have sex with a two-dimensional character. I wouldn't, but Mr. Mews would. 

From the little experience I have with anime, incest is apparently pretty normalized. Every scene with her—seemingly, at least—carries some sexual connotations, and it’s kind of weird. I genuinely can’t figure out the point of this character, and thus, my hypothesis is that they’re setting up for an SAO situation. For those well versed in degeneracy, you’ll understand that reference, and if you don't, be grateful you’ve never watched that shitshow. Well, actually, if you like Solo Leveling, it’s right up your alley<sub>5</sub>. The characters are equally shallow—with plot points even more loosely strung together—but at least Kirito has SOME motivation. We’ll get to that later. The only thing Solo Leveling has going for it, thankfully, is that it hasn’t gone down the route SAO chose: incest, rape, and tentacle monsters. Really low bar to clear; it’s on the floor, but I would not put it past them. Back to “would,” her entire existence feels like it’s solely there for fan service. She’s like sixteen, so that’s also kinda crazy. She does get more relevant as the series goes on, or so I’ve been informed, but her inclusion in the first place feels really forced. Let’s be clear, I have nothing against female representation, but she serves literally no purpose. I’m pretty sure she's exclusively a character for fan fiction, and because of that, there’s no point in me continuing this section. Also, thank god I have no clout because if I were on record saying that last sentence, college would be the least of my problems. Keep in mind, she’s definitely something around sixteen. 

Ok, finally, we get to talk about Mr. Mews. Where do I start? First, I guess it's important to mention his namesake: mewing. I know it’s been left untouched until now, so you being confused would be understandable. For those unacquainted with the art of mewing, it’s a stupid trend in which one presses their tongue to the roof of their mouth. This supposedly helps grow the jawline, and over time, it should give you a more pronounced facial structure. Before you try this, there is absolutely no evidence to substantiate any claims of facial restructuring, and in fact, there’s a good chance you'll hurt yourself. Because of a drastic face change in the beginning of the show, he earned the moniker, and because of TikTok brain rot hitting the entirety of my writing staff, the name stuck. Because I mentioned harmful female stereotypes, it’s only fair to talk about male ones, and with that context in mind, this mewing ordeal makes a lot more sense. This whole mewing thing, in a sense, is directly pushing—and because of—harmful male stereotypes surrounding “what it means to be a man.” By making him a more manly figure after his transformation—as seen by his sharper jawline—and depicting his physical dominance, they’re indirectly equating your manhood to the angle of your chin and, additionally, your ability to kill someone. According to the show’s target demographic, it’s fair to say it isn’t a reach to assume it’s meant to exploit vulnerabilities amongst young kids—the same kids that idolize Andrew Tate. That’s complete speculation, though, so let’s talk about something else. 

I will say, however, that I don't necessarily need every character to subvert stereotypes. Oftentimes, they can act as a familiar, pre-established template to build off, but solo leveling doesn’t really do that. Mr. Mew isn’t completely edgy; he’s occasionally normal and not completely a blank slate, so what is he? It’s more of a weird lovechild between irony and cringe that, funnily enough, combines the worst of both worlds. He’s simultaneously trying too hard—no one outside toddlers finds this cool—and yet, somehow still manages to do the dumbest shit at every turn. He does stupid shit, gets his ass whooped, then plot armors out of every actual problem. When I say actual, that’s because half the tension is insanely manufactured and fake. It gets hard to suspend your disbelief when every character acts like a literal Saturday morning cartoon villain…wait… They literally are one. 

If I haven’t emphasized this enough, this show is extremely apathetic. There’s a clear lack of effort put in for, well, quite literally everything. Up until now, I’ve mentioned relatively isolated pet peeves, but finally, and I’ve saved the biggest for last, I’m going to be crying over the plot structure. Regardless of whether I’m even qualified to critique plot writing, the story objectively reads like a third-rate Wattpad, and realistically, I’m not remotely qualified to talk about anything in this video. The writing for everything is ham-fisted, as we mentioned prior, but I don’t think you understand the lengths to which it extends. One of the most common writing tropes to fall into, understandably, is the overuse of plot armor, and Solo Leveling isn’t any different. Just like everything else, using the trope isn’t inherently bad, but you have to show restraint. You don’t need me telling you this, but that’s not happening. Every episode feels like the writers are writing themselves into a corner, and what’s the only way out? Bullshit. If you want an example, look at the stealth ability. It’s pumped and dumped for the interrogation scene, and once the writers figured out it was OP, they invented a McGuffin to negate it. 

The show seems to repeat every mistake of every relevant anime in the past few years, and here, it’s no different. The power ceiling raises itself every single episode, and eventually, it becomes so boring. To anyone over the age of five, I think problem-solving is way cooler than flashing and running around like a monkey. That’s besides the point, though. Every episode just becomes a wait for the inevitable convenient power-up, and it’s not well disguised in the slightest. There's no real suspense, no buildup, and barely a payoff. I kid you not, everything just happens for the sole reason of plot convenience and whatever the writers dreamt up that day. The knight killing dagger in the last episode? That was not pre-established, hyped up, or even mentioned: quite literally pulled out of his ass. You’ve heard of Chekhov’s gun, but what about Chekhov’s concealed carry? There’s quite literally zero thought put into the story, and frankly, the best comparison to that is a corn film. Every fight, the sex scenes in this analogy, is loosely strung together with arbitrarily thrown-in plot devices. Honestly, I think Riley Reid can write something better<sub>6</sub>.

Now, before you go into the comments and type “it gets better after XYZ,” don’t. Realistically, why would I spend my time watching this absolute cesspool when I could, let's say, be playing DQ? This video isn’t sponsored by the way, but hey, Square, I would love a deal for the new FF game. Now, don’t get me wrong, I will be watching the second season—for the sole reason of friends—but I will not enjoy it. That being said, there’s not much more that I have to say. If you're still a little confused, the show is lazy. Everything goes down the path of least resistance, and throughout, there's not even an ounce of effort. If you’ve noticed the script quality decreasing as we’ve gone on, that’s because I’m so absolutely tired of talking about this shitty show. I’ll let whoever’s after me take over, and if there’s no one, subscribe!

Jalen's Comments-

1. Power fantasy has been one of the most overused genres in modern anime. When Sword Art Online initially aired during 2014, the new isekai medium brought about new anime fans along with new writers. Because of generic cardboard cutout Isekais labeled as "anime," the genre has become very stale. Solo leveling follows along this trend of generic power fantasy. So, what separates Solo Leveling from the rest? The short answer is, well…nothing. Solo Leveling doesn’t change much from the classic “Boy gets strong after getting some sort of secret power and becomes overpowered, getting all the females," so why is Solo Leveling rated #374 in rank on MAL? Well, besides the fact that its score is inflated from manhwa readers (I'm included), it's because of the fresh breath of air from every typical power fantasy. Sounds pretty contradictory, and well, it is. Solo Leveling's animation and art quality are, to put it plainly, some of the better qualities I've seen in this anime. This is also a great time to say that there will be spoilers for those who haven’t watched the anime, so you should probably watch the anime first. Anime as a medium is built from the core fact that it is a cartoon, and A-1 Pictures killed it (as they usually do) with its animation and art rivaling the actual art of the manhwa. Solo Leveling's protagonist, Sung-Jin Woo, is so weak that he’s dubbed the weakest hunter of all time due to his E-rank status. However, when he and his party run into a high-rank dungeon by accident, almost everyone is killed. Sung-Jin Woo, although on the brink of death, is offered an opportunity for a special power. When Sung-Jin Woo wakes up, he finds himself in a hospital fully recovered; he also learns that his power is to level up, similar to many MMOs. It’s also worth mentioning that in this world of Solo Leveling, people who become hunters have their power at a fixed amount. Using this power, Sung-Jin Woo gets, well, stronger. Does this sound familiar? Well, this is just every power fantasy ever. Solo Leveling, as previously mentioned, doesn’t stray away from the typical isekai formula. In fact, it is an embodiment of it, and that's what makes it so good. My main complaint about this show is its constant use of exposition to build a story out of it. Through the anime’s attempt to pursue better character development, there was a lot of what felt like filler to build suspense. I would just be watching the most hyped fight scene ever, and then they would transition to a conversation between a few characters to whom I haven’t been introduced yet. While I agree this is kind of necessary for character development and world-building, there are other ways in which this could be done.

2. I’m going to be honest, I flat-out disagree with Stanley in this one. Although the fantasy genre as a whole has a similar theme. The way each fantasy anime presents itself at first typically will reflect on how the anime continues its story. For example, “That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime," although Slime is an isekai (and a great one at that), isekai is another genre associated with power fantasy; its world-building is often explained through both dialogue and monologue. While there is an argument that can be made that the character and overall atmosphere are different, the argument still stands, as isekai is THE most overused genre in modern anime, and Slime’s world-building is really generic in isekai.

3. Alright, Stanley’s 2nd argument, “the power fantasy is lackluster"... I literally cannot disagree with that anymore. The power fantasy in this anime is FUCKING SICK. I might be glazing, and I don’t care. But I get chills watching the animation quality of fights in the anime, which is another part that I love in this adaptation. Stanley also briefly mentions Song-Jin Woo and him taking care of his mother for HALF THE SEASON, which just isn’t true at all (idk where bro got this from)??? There are some spoilers I’d like to talk about, but Stanley currently has a gun at my head and WILL pull the trigger if I spoil anything. 

4. Hi guys, I’m back, and Stanley’s third argument is that there's another SAO situation if you know what I mean.... While I admit there are some fanservice scenes, which I won’t really defend. The thought that there are hinted romantic feelings between Sung Jin Woo and his sister is a really big stretch. The sibling interaction in Solo Leveling, while somewhat unrealistic, is really quite wholesome. If anything, the relationship that Jinah (his sister) has is more like a mother/son, as she constantly worries about Jin Woo throughout the story. This also ties in pretty well, as due to their mother being in a coma, Jinah feels it is her responsibility to fill that role. The comparison made to Sword Art Online is completely unjustified, as the sibling portrayal in SAO is just insane, in a bad way. 

5. Hello, I'm back once again. This’ll be my last one, as I literally cannot be bothered to dispute Stanley’s claims. Why? Well, it's mostly because I’m too lazy and a little bit of me thinks that Stanley’s arguments are trash. Well anyways, I’ll probably talk a little bit about each argument he's made. Probably the only thing that I agree with Stanley on, but in Solo Leveling the usage of plot armor is over the top. Stanley mentions the most obvious example, and the plot armor in Solo Leveling is a big critique I have that is present in both the manhwa and the anime. Another point Stanley brings up is the overhyped power fantasy, or in quotes, “The show seems to repeat every mistake of every relevant anime in the past few years and here." To this I say, Stanley, you haven't watched anime for shit, and Solo Leveling is quite literally an almost perfect power fantasy. Also, as a quick disclaimer, I said “an almost perfect power fantasy," not "best anime ever." Solo Leveling is far from the best anime, but I believe it is one of the best power fantasies we are able to get right now. Ranging from the animation/art quality to the world-building and setting, this is probably the best power fantasy that's going to be out for a while. Anyways, that's it from me. Hopefully Stanley frees me from his basement. Sovin out. 

6. I cannot be bothered.

--

_Content was edited for grammar; originally an essay for youtube._