---
title: 'On Taylor Swift'
description: 'dumpster fire incarnate'
pubDate: 'Apr 13 2024'
heroImage: 
    - /images/NOC.jpg
category: "Danger"
---

Since “Tortured Poet’s Department” drops in a little over a week, as of writing this, and a day before this video should come out, I guess now would be a better time than ever to talk about this. Oh, and after last week’s video, I need something light to keep me sane. OK, I’m going to be honest, I used to hate Taylor Swift. Even now, I’ll acknowledge that her music is objectively trashy. Nevertheless, there’s undeniably something charming about her songs, and every night, whilst writing, she’s my go-to pick. Funny enough, I really don’t even enjoy music. I’ve started to “see the light" ever since that one fateful night (clever rhyme, right?), but almost all my life, I've hated it. It’s always seemed like a nuisance, a distraction from thought, and even now, this still partially holds true. Let me preface this by very openly stating that I’m not a music critic, nor do I pretend to be one, and this is just the ramblings of a Swiftie. 

So, you may be wondering how I went from a firm hater to getting her album as a birthday gift. You know, I’m wondering that too. I guess, if we want to go chronologically, it all started with Sebastian. He was a firm, dedicated Swiftie, and I really just couldn’t see the appeal. Before I could roast him, however, I had to hear it for myself; after all, you can’t knock it till you try it. This eventually led to me spending a night, alone, listening to her latest album at the time, “1989 (Taylor’s Version).” As I was in a Discord call, to avoid ads, my friends eventually checked up on me, and as one thing led to another, we all ended up spending two consecutive nights listening to, and judging, the album. If I were to pinpoint the exact moment Stanley turned into “Not a Swiftie,” it would be that night and specifically, “Blank Space.” Ever since the Soviet started introducing me to more music, in an attempt to limit the time spent on Swift, it’s ironically just drawn me to her more. At some point, every night just consisted of her music and writing. That long of a story, just to say I really don’t know how this happened. Eventually, I got falsely accused of being a Swiftie, and after some fervent denial, it earned me the moniker “Not a Swiftie.”

Besides that, there are a million things I could nitpick. One of her most popular songs, “Love Story,” is a horrid bastardization of the tragedy. Why? By having her “Romeo” and “Juliet” get together, it misses the whole point of the story. The play’s whole claim to fame IS the fact that the two are divided by a pointless, petty feud, and by giving the story a happy ending, it reduces the tragedy to a generic, shitty romance. Sure, you can make the argument that she only uses the names, but just that is enough to really sour the song. I still love it though, so screw all that. There’s also “ME!,” an absolute shitshow of a song, and from a writer’s perspective, it’s a mess. She somehow manages to make Brendon Urie look bad, and the theming of the song is a joke. Let’s be real, it’s nothing more than a “feel-good" song, and honestly, that’s enough. Still not my cup of tea, but it’s better than pretending it’s something more. By saying it’s “a song about embracing your individuality and really celebrating it," she completely makes a joke of herself, and realistically, who the fuck would have figured that out? Sure, the title is “ME!,” but literally nothing else contributes anything. Also, let’s not forget, she says, “Hey Kids, Spelling is Fun!” and I genuinely don’t even know what to say to that. Please, correct me if I’m wrong, but the song's really horrible. OK, let’s take a quick look at Genius. All these posers are frauds because realistically, what is there to even say?

When she eventually goes down the feminist route, and I applaud her for stepping outside what sells, it’s a complete shitshow. Sometimes, it feels like Swift can’t win. If she plays it safe, she gets critiqued for monogamy, and if she experiments, critics go crazy. I completely understand this, but wow, she completely missed the mark. It’s way too late, and I'm on way too short of a timetable, to be finding examples, but if this video goes somewhere, I’ll do it. Off the top of my head, at 1AM, this is not happening. I’ll give you this: “The Man” is a fantastic song and, honestly, it’s well written. Those were all really specific examples, but now, let’s focus on her work as a whole. Honestly, it could be summed up as generic shit for kids. Hey, there's nothing wrong with that—she's made more money than my entire bloodline—but I’m just tired of people pretending like it’s something more. Some songs are amazing, yes—and we’ll get to that—but even her best works aren’t narratively complex in the slightest. Everything's pretty much face value, and while there's a merit to that, it leaves more to be desired. Generally, you’re most critical of those you love, and genuinely, I know she can do better. 

Alright, where do I start? Well, to put it really simply, her music sounds good. I can’t believe that sentence came out of my pen, let alone my mouth, but it’s the brutal reality. Her sounds produce the happy chemicals in my brain, and with the stress I burden, it helps with writing a LOT. It’s also partly a contrarian thing, to spite Wombat, so there’s that. If you want a close analysis, here we go. 

I know I was really negative in the beginning, and there’s a lot to hate, but as the title suggests, she’s subjectively great. Her music is undeniably catchy; even the harshest critics can agree that “Black Space” is good, and frankly, generic pop is great. On the surface, even to the little bros, the songs are a vibe, and if you look a little deeper, she actually does have something to say. There are not many layers, but what’s there is fine. Well, there’s a reason “Cruel Summer” is in every Walmart and something like “Stan” isn’t. We’re going to completely ignore that "Stan" is like fifteen years old. Her music is really meant to appeal to the lowest common denominator, which is fine, and everyone can understand it. There's some merit to that, and the reality is, not everyone will care about perfect writing. If we’re being real here—while objectively, Stan is better—it just requires too much thinking. As art, that song far outweighs anything Taylor Swift will ever make, so why do I come back to her every night? Just like an abusive relationship, there’s sometimes no method to the madness. The sweet moments are so mesmerizing that, honestly, I’m willing to put up with the abuse. That’s a ridiculously insensitive analogy to use, but it’s fitting in a sense; if you’re offended, keep in mind it’s 2AM and I’m dumb. To put it simply, Taylor Swift is the ice cream of the music world: her songs are always there, and after everything, they’re still just as sweet. If you want to go into examples, let’s.

Actually, I’m so tired, so let’s not. Off the top of my head, here are some of the best songs: “Blank Space,” “Love Story,” “You Need to Calm Down,” “The Man,” and—how could I forget?—"You Belong With Me.” “She wears short skirts, I wear T-shirts?" There are a million more, but we’ll stop there. To me, music is nothing more than something to fill dead space with. For that, Swift’s happy, melodramatic songs are perfect. 

I'm not a white girl, nor am I trying to sleep with one; I'm not from the Midwest and not even remotely qualified to critique music, so why? Well, it’s a simple answer; she’s a damn good singer. It feels weird defending her—after all, she’s by no means a small artist—but like I said in the beginning, these are just the ramblings of a Swiftie. There’s a lot more to be said, but I’m trying to meet an extremely tight schedule, so if you want more, subscribe! I’ll probably do a first impressions of “Tortured Poet’s Department"; I’ve managed to avoid all spoilers next week, so that’ll be fun. Going forward, I plan to review a Swift album every week or two—regardless of views—so pray for me. That’s pretty much it for this week, so do the regular YouTube stuff and have a great day! This has been Swoyui (Taylor’s Version), and I…AM…TIRED. I’m probably going to go back to sleep. 

--

_Content was edited for grammar; originally an essay for youtube._