---
title: 'On Veganism'
description: 'just basic empathy'
pubDate: 'Mar 23 2025'
heroImage: 
    - /images/on_veganism/Chicken.jpg
    - /images/on_veganism/Popeyes.jpg
category: "General"
---

Meat, the flesh of once living beings, has been eaten since time immemorial. Killing is fundamentally immoral; there’s no greater price than life, but the lion’s dilemma is not one of ethics. Every animal has the right to fight for its own survival, even if it means taking the life of another, and the satiation of hunger is merely a biological concern. The consumption of meat is not inherently wrong, at least in principle, but you’ll struggle to find meat in today’s supermarkets that isn't factory farmed. The vegan question is really a simple one: is the life of an animal worth less than the fleeting enjoyment from the taste of its meat? Any other argument strays away from what matters, the pleasure we derive from another’s pain, and not only are they filled with hypocrisy, they’re riddled with denial. How are some animals exempt from human consumption when we gladly factory-farm cows? How can we turn a blind eye to torture, to the extent of justifying it, for the sake of satisfying our species’ addiction to the taste of another animal’s flesh? We pride ourselves on our morality and our intelligence, yet we turn a blind eye to blatant, cold-blooded murder. And for what? A $2 cheeseburger and a chicken sandwich?

"Animals are inferior to humans, and they don’t understand pain.” It’s one of the most common justifications for factory farming, yet one of the most flawed. Let’s say, for instance, that the above statement is true—cows are emotionless, brain-dead meat sacks. Does that justify their murder? Is one’s value determined by their intelligence and their capability to feel? If there were a person with a cow’s intelligence, would that justify our consumption of its meat? The conclusion that we arrive at is simple: any being’s life is inherently valuable. Even if we were to work off the fact that the prior presumption was false, how can we say a human’s enjoyment of a cow’s meat outweighs that cow’s life? Even if you make the argument that the question is subjective, one may just really like steak; any enjoyment derived from meat is ephemeral. In a week, you would have forgotten about that steak, meaning the beef’s taste holds no significant value, while a cow lost its life for that meat. When purely just quantifying the value of the two, a cow’s life, which is worth something, cannot be of equal value to its meat’s taste. Regardless, with the advancements of recent technologies, vegetarian replicas of meat have become nearly indistinguishable from the real deal. The only thing really holding back alternatives is the impossible task of mimicking meat’s efficiency of delivering protein; no one really wants to rely on supplements to live. That being said, it’s not impossible, far from it, and any inconvenience is greatly outweighed by the worth of a life. While certain professions are easier with meat, take bodybuilding as an example. Is our ability to grow big muscles really worth the collective death of these animals? Just death would be one thing; animals have been domesticated for thousands of years, but the torture they endure in factories is beyond anything humane. Imagine being drugged, forcefed, raped, and thrown into an overcrowded pen. And what’s awaiting at the end of the tunnel? Your young are subjected to the same fate, and your throat is slit. This torture is really what makes meat immoral: in our efforts to pursue profits and optimization, we’ve slaughtered tens of billions of animals to quench our insatiable thirst for meat. The next time you complain about the price of eggs or McDonald's cheeseburger going up, think of the chickens that were spared that cruel fate. The dollar menu doesn’t seem that bad after all, does it?

I absolutely despise the treatment of animals, yes, but I can’t stand the hypocrisy we spout. I love dogs as much as the next guy, and I couldn’t imagine a dog getting its throat slit. Yet, by eating meat, I’m subjecting a cow to a fate maybe worse than death. Dogs are spared because they’re cute and we see them as companions; who are we to decide the worth of a life? By arbitrarily deciding the worth of an animal’s life based on its value to us, and we’re ultimately just other animals, are we not playing God? Why is a cow’s life meaningless, its only purpose being to be eaten, when an elephant is worth protecting and a dog is worth feeding? An animal’s subjective worth to us is seen as its objective moral weight; are we the arbiters of morality? We as a society look down upon recreational hunting, and I’m not debating the cruelty of killing a deer to hang its head on a wall, but is that really so different from eating meat? In both scenarios, you’re killing, ultimately, for enjoyment. At least the trophy animals lived a full life; the factory-farmed cow is probably better off dead. Animal testing is slightly more defensible; their lives go towards the production of life-saving medicine, but it still is absolutely better than the way we raise our meat. If even life-saving medicine isn’t worth the life of an animal, how can meat be wholly justifiable? To a certain extent, I would be fine with eating meat if human society collectively agreed that all meat was moral to eat. The fact that some animals are considered taboo, with the mere harming of them seen as criminal, means humans do have some awareness of an animal’s ability to suffer. If we understand the pain and suffering endured to produce our meat, if we realize the objective value of life, why do we insist on continuing to eat meat? We’ve long moved past instinctual recreational hunting (i.e., cats toying with their prey), and we’re now, let’s face it, addicted to the taste of meat. Humans are the only animals to hunt for sport (non-instinctually); how can we still proclaim ourselves so morally enlightened?

I understand eating meat out of habit, tradition, or just for the taste; steak is, and any vegan would agree, delicious. What I’ll never understand is morally justifying, or even excusing, the consumption of meat. People often tell me they see no point in giving up meat; saving a chicken won’t personally benefit them, but is altruism really such an abstract concept? Another frequent argument is one of futility: "Won't people just eat any meat that wasn’t consumed by me?” Eating food isn’t a zero-sum game: you not eating meat doesn’t make other people eat more. All of these abstract arguments are really just attempts to rationalize an otherwise inexcusable behavior, and it always comes back to one question: why not try? If we can agree that factory farming is fundamentally immoral, why still support it? We’re not going to end the consumption of meat outright; it would crash the economy, but what about a decade from now? A century? If we could create a world where humans and animals were allowed to coexist without them under a constant fear of being drugged, tortured, and killed, why wouldn’t we? Wars have been fought since forever, and they’re still being fought right now, yet we still have a UN. Even if meat were to be consumed till kingdom come, would you not be happy if you could save half of the animals destined to die? A quarter? An eighth? Even just one? If you deem meat okay because society sees it so, has history not taught you a thing about change? Women once were considered unfit to vote, something we believed not too long ago, yet we can all agree the deprivation of that right was fundamentally immoral. Women being granted that inherent right made a man’s vote half as powerful, yet I—and everyone ever—would gladly do it a thousand more times. When will we realize that we’ve been depriving these animals the most fundamental right of them all: the right to life? 

John Rawls's idea of the “original position” is a political thought experiment, but we can apply it to the world at large. If you were to enter this world unsure of your place in it—you could be a tree, a pencil, or a pig—would you still want factory farms around? Considering that 100 billion animals are killed a year from factory farming, greatly outnumbering the 140 million human babies born a year, no sane person would not eliminate the system in its entirety. Ultimately, in a perfect utopia, no one would eat meat. I get it; meat tastes amazing, and plant-based alternatives are ridiculously expensive. It’s easy to detach ourselves from the animals slaughtered when meat is so convenient, yes, and I’m not asking you to completely stop the consumption of all animal products. The fact of the matter is that you could live without one less Popeye’s chicken sandwich. I can't remember the amount I’ve had in my lifetime, but that one chicken sandwich cost a chicken’s life. Even if you can’t go your whole life never eating meat, would it hurt to eat one less cheeseburger a month? Maybe a week? Even if you could not eat one less steak, why not advocate for, or at least agree with, veganism? Why fight against it and rationalize the cruelty? If anything, should we not strive to minimize suffering in our short time on this planet? If anything else, should we not be the change we want to see in the world? That’s the vegan question.

--

_Content was edited for grammar; originally an essay for a contest._